>> Burke Holland: What we want to do here
is we want to make it so that we can run
this application here, which is an Azure
Functions project, inside of a container.
Because in order for
you to run an Azure Functions project, you
have to have some very specific things.
You need to have the .NET core CLI.
You have to have that installed.
You have to have the Azure Functions
core tools installed,
you have to have the Azure Functions
extension installed.
This is before you can even think
about running the application.
So instead, what we wanna do is create a
container which already has those things.
And then anybody else can run them
as well using remote containers.
So here's how we do that.
We've got our project here.
Let's go ahead and turn this thing
into a remote container project.
So I'm gonna do Cmd+Shift+P,
Remote-Containers.
And what I'm gonna say is Add Development
Configuration Files for a Container.
Now, it will ask us which project and
then it wants to know which on of this
pre-built environments do you want?
So it's got a bunch to start out with.
If you go through here,
you can see there's F#,
there's Java, there's Go,
there's Node, there's Perl,
there's PowerShell, and
Python of course down here at the bottom.
Swift, just in case you
want to develop swift.
These are pre-configured
containers that you can use.
So what we want is
Azure Functions & Node LTS.
And then what happens is it
gives us two files over here.
We get a devcontainer file,
which specifies information about
the development environment.
And then look what we get.
A Docker file.
Now, if we look at this Docker file,
it looks a little bit wordy.
So you can see here, we've got,
it's running some updates.
It's installing some things.
It's installing Git.
I don't know what these things are.
I believe they're Linux utilities that
we need to actually make this thing run.
And then down here look installing
.NET Core and the Azure CLI and
setting up all the correct permissions,
configuring all the pads correctly.
All right cleaning up, and then
I don't know what that does switch back to
dialogue for any ad-hoc use of apt-get.
Okay, we'll do.
All right now that we've got this we
actually need to create the container.
So we have the dev container folder.
How do we open this project
inside of the container?
How do we use that container as
our development environment?
Back at our Command Prompt I'm just
gonna move into the Start folder here.
And I'm gonna open a new
instance of VS code.
>> Burke Holland: All right.
So now I'm inside the start project.
And what we want to do is open this
project inside of our container.
So what we're going to do is look at
my party parrots going nuts up there.
We're going to do this right here,
click on this little icon and
we're going to say Remote-Containers.
Reopen folder in containers.
>> Burke Holland: Now it says
installing dev container.
If we go to details, and you can see
it's pulling down all these things.
It's running all these commands.
It's installing these things for
Linux, it's setting all these values.
It's going to pull down and install
the .NET Core framework that we need to
run this, which it's doing right now.
And the first time that you open a new dev
container, the first time you create one,
it takes a while because it has to pull
all this stuff down from the cloud.
After you do it the first time, it gets
a whole lot faster because it's all
cached locally and
you don't have to pull it down anymore.
>> Burke Holland: If the container file
changes, and it's not the same as what's
on your local machine anymore, when you go
to open the container, it will actually
refresh and rebuild and get you the newest
version so that's always current.
You can see it's got asp.net core.
I didn't even know you needed
asp.net core to run this.
I guess you do.
So we'll just let this thing finish here,
unpacking Azure Functions Core Tools.
>> Burke Holland: Let it
install all this stuff.
While this is happening,
I'll tell you about the third flavor of
remote development that we're not gonna
talk about, and that's for the WSL.
So this is a very specific
thing to Windows.
Windows has the Windows subsystem for
Linux, and
what it does is it gives you
a Linux command prompt on Windows.
The problem is that those two file systems
are separate, so people who use the WSL
know this, people who don't this is
going to sound a little weird to you.
But if you create a file In the WSL
you can't even edit that file
from the Windows file system.
So the problem is that when you
open a project from the WSL in
VS code where does VS code run?
On the Windows side.
Where are your files?
On the Linux side, that's a problem.
And so
what it does now is it remotes in and
allows you to develop actually inside the
WSL which is a much improved experience
for people that are using
the Windows subsystem.
We're not gonna go over that here but
if you are on Windows you should check out
and make sure that you have the remote
containers or remote for WSL installed.
It will make your life much happier.
All right, I think we are getting
close to getting this container built.